### Opening and closing a connection
Python has a few ways of starting and ending a connection. A *connection* in this case can include opening a file, or accessing a database.
The most basic way of doing so is with a try block.
```py
f = None
try:
    f = open('some_file.txt')
    # do stuff with f like read the file
finally:
    if f:
      f.close()
```
A variable `f` is initialized to represent the connection (here, the file)
We then `try` to open a local file. We try this because the file may not exist, or may be inaccessible. If it can not be accessed, we cannot perform further actions.
The finally - which *will* run no matter what, then checks to see if we were able to access the file. Only if we accessed it do we need to close it and end the connection.

### The With Keyword
The try block can now be replaced with a simple keyword: `with`. The with acts as the opener and closer for a connection.
```py
# with FILE_ACCESS as FILE_VARAIBLE
with open('some_file.txt') as f:
	# do stufff with f
```
Above, `f` is now scoped to the code block alone, so we do not need to declare it and reassign it. This means we could also reuse the `f` variable elsewhere.

### Enter and Exit
The with keyword is using two dunder methods behind the scenes. Enter and Exit. Anything with an Enter and Exit dunder is a *context manager*
Below is an example of how a context manager works.
```py
class WithLogger:
    def __enter__(self):
        print("2. In __enter__")
        return self

    def __exit__(self, type, value, traceback):
        print("4. In __exit__", type, value)
        return True


print("1. Before with")
with WithLogger() as logger:
    print("3. In with block")
print("5. After with")

# Prints
1. Before with
2. In __enter__
3. In with block
4. In __exit__ None None
5. After with
```

We enter the context manager, we perform actions, and we leave the context manager.

The Enter dunder takes in and returns only self.

The Exit dunder takes in self, type, value, and traceback. 
- `self` is the default parameter for all Python methods 
- `type` is the *type* of exception raised within the block. If none is raised, it is None
- `value` is the exception. If there is none, it is None.
- `traceback` is the stack trace of the exception. If there is none, it is None.

The exit also has a True return value. This indicates that this context manager is done, and no additional actions need to be performed. If the exit dunder were to return a False value, that would indicate that more actions need to be taken, and the context would get passed on to the next manager that can handle it.
