## What is DSAA?
*Data structures and algorithms* are the ways that we can structure data, navigate through data, and achieve results.

*Data structures* are how data is organized. Data structures are built on top of or utilized with existing data collection, like arrays or lists. Where an element is inserted into or taken out of an array is a data structure. Advanced data structures can includes trees, linked lists, and graphs. 
For example, if 10 people were gathered together in no particular fashion, they would simply be a group of people. Now, if we had them stand one behind the other, we have a line. If the first person in the line does something, and the person behind them goes next, we have a queue.
If, instead of a line, we had everyone hold hands with two other people, we would have a linked list - where some people can have a certain number of neighbors: Left and right.
The purpose of a data structure is to organize data, how they're navigated and accessed, and how they relate to one another.

Algorithms are the sets of instructions to use data or solve a problem. Whereas an equation is a set of specific instructions, an algorithm can make use of all sorts of steps and conditions to reach a result. 
If a person was going on a walk, we could say "place one foot in front of the other" and that could be the entire algorithm. Maybe we want to add an endpoint - like the park - so we know when to stop walking. Maybe we want to reach the park from different starting points, like home or school. Maybe we decide to walk with friends, or walk a dog, or take a different route, or ride a bike instead.
The purpose of an algorithm is to consider input and conditions, and apply any number of instructions to reach a result.