We'll need to get a SQLAlchemy project set up in order to use it. Start by creating a new directory to act as the root of our project.

Next, we need to install using pipenv. We will need to be in our virtual environment.
`pipenv install sqlalchemy`
`pipenv install flask_sqlalchemy`
`pipenv shell`
*SQLAlchemy will be running through a flask application, so asume we have all flask related imports done*

Next, head to the .env and configure our database url. The database url is composed of two parts: the scheme and the authority. 
- The scheme is the sql client, which could be `sqlite:/` or `postgresql:/` 
- The authority is the path to the database. This can be relative, local, or a web link
For a local sqlite, we will add to our .env 
`DATABSE_URL=`sqlite:///dev.db
(sqlite:/ + / + /dev.db)
A local path takes an additional forward-slash
```
FLASK_ENV=development
SECRET_KEY=qp02348jrqj43rpqj34pqjr
DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///dev.db
```

Just like we added the secret key to the configuration class, the Ddatabase url will also be added as a class variable.
Along with the database ur, we will also add a required track modifications. Needed to avoid certain errors.
```py
class Config:
	SECRET_KEY = ...
	SQLALCHEMY_TRACK_MODIFICATIONS = False
	SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI = os.environ.get('DATABASE_URL')
```
*A default url value is not recommended*

Within the app directory, create a new file called `models.py`. This is the file that all database models will be declared. Most importantly, it is where we create an instance of our sqlalchemy database.
```py
from flak_alchemy import SQLAlchemy

db = SQLALchemy()
```

Finally, this db object needs to be imported into the main flask application and connected to the app
```py
from app.models import db

db.init_app(app)
```

## File Structure
### app/__init__.py
```py
from flask import Flask
from app.config import Configuration
from app.routes import users
from app.models import db, User

app = Flask(__name__)
app.config.from_object(Configuration)
app.register_blueprint(users.bp)
db.init_app(app)
```

### .env
```
FLASK_ENV=development
SECRET_KEY=qp02348jrqj43rpqj34pqjr
DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///dev.db
```

### app/config.py
```py
import os

class Config:
	SECRET_KEY = ...
	SQLALCHEMY_TRACK_MODIFICATIONS = False
	SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI = os.environ.get('DATABASE_URL')
```