With our class models defined, we now need to create those table in the database. This can be done for now in a seeder file. Later, this will be done through alembic.
The app is the thing connected to the database and flask, so make sure to import that. Since we are outside of the application file (or routes) We'll then need to call app_context to get the connection set up
We will also need to import the database along with the classes to perform actions in the database.
```py
from app import app
from app.models import db, Book, Author

with app.app_context():
	database stuff....
```

Now we can make queries and create data.
The first thing we should do in this file is run db.drop_all(). This will empty the entire database.
Then we can do the same to create all the tables.
```py
with app.app_context():
	db.drop_all()
	print('Tables dropped')
	
	db.create_all()
	print('Tables created')
```

Run this file through `pipenv run python3 filename.py`
The database should now have tables that map to the properties of the classes.

## Creating Instances
A record in a table is create by invoking instances of it's class. They can be assigned to variables, to created functionally.
```py
with app.app_context():
	user1 = User(name='Andy')
	user2 = User(name='Buzz')
	users = [User(name='copy') for i in range(5)]
```

With data that we have created, we can use variables to assign values to other related data. If a relationship is set up, between them, we can assign an instance to that property directly.
```py
# in app context
author1 = Author(name='Stephen King')
book = Book(title='It', author=author1)

book2 = Book(title='Jurassic park')
book3 = Book(title='Andromeada Strain')
author3 = Author(name='Michael Crichton', books=[book2, book3])
```

## Saving to database
The instances we have previously created are only instances of the class definitions. They do not yet exist in the database. To save and store the information, we have to add and commit to the database session.
After adding everything we want stored to the database, we can then commit it, which finally stores it. Nothing happens to the database until commit is called.
```py
# in app context
db.session.add(author1)
db.session.add_all([author3, book, book2, book3])
db.commit()
```

The commit is the saving action. Only things that are committed appear in the database. Any modifications done without a commit are not saved. If a change is made to an instance and needs to be saved, be sure to commit again.

Commiting also clears whatever is currently on the session.

## Deleting from the database
Remember that what we add and save to the database is stored in the session. To delete an instance we already have access to, we need only to call delete on the session and pass it in

```py
db.session.delete(book3)
db.session.commit()
```
Keep in mind that some instances or records are related by foreign keys.
If the foreign key is allowed to be null, it will be set to null.
If the foreign key is required in the record, this could cause an *orphaned* instance. It would have a foreign key that points to nothing, and would throw an error. This is where the `cascade='all, delete-orphan'` key on the relationship constructor comes into play. It will delete any record that would be *orphaned* only. Non dependant records can remain.

## Rollbacks
Since into what is committed makes it to the database, we can return modifications made to instances to their last committed values using `rollback`
```py
author = Author(name='Stephen King')
db.session.add(author)
db.commit()

author.name='Steppen Kang'
db.rollback()
print(author.name) # Stephen King
```