Now that we can create tables, create data, and add that data to the database, we need some way to retrieve it.
Previously, we were able to query into the database by passing in a string of the SQL commands we wanted to execute. While this worked, running an unfiltered string is always dangerous, and vulnerable to malicious actions.
In addition, this defeats the purpose of an ORM, which focuses on writing SQL in the local programming language (python)

## The Query object
Rather than relying on a string, we instead compile all the commands for a query we want to run into a single `query` object. The query itself does not do the querying, but instead represents what we want to have queried.

Normally, the query I kept would be called on the current session, with the model we want to Query passed in
`user_query = session.query(User)`
Since we are using `db.Model` instead, we can call a query directly on the model for the same effect 
`user_query = User.query()`

Again, the query object only represents the commands we will eventually run. To see those commands, run the `__repr__()` method and see the commands ans how they are formatted.

Without any additions, it will simply query everything in the table.

### Adding to the query
To narrow down the focusing the query, we can chain additional methods to the query object.

| to get | chain/arguments |
| --- | --- |
| Specific columns | query(property, property) |
| by primary key | query().get(pk) |
| ordering | query().order_by(property) |
| filter results | query().filter(property.like('%mmy')) |
| | query().filter(property <= 7) |
See more on comparison [here](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/internals.html#sqlalchemy.orm.RelationshipProperty.Comparator)

These can all be chained together for a very specific query, or to combine them as an `AND` query
```py
user_query = User.query(first_name, last_name) /
			.order(last_name) /
			.filter(first_name.like('%y%')) /
			.filter(age >= 13)
```
*It is good Python to split chained methods to new lines ended by forward slashes*

## Running the query
Now that we have the commands to run the query, we can finally run it to return data. In order to get the data, 