## None
`None` is the value in Python for something without a value  like undefined or null in JavaScript. Notice the capitalization.

A function without an explicit return value returns None.

## Boolean
Only two values: `True` or `False` *notice capitalization*
Any variable or object can evaluate to a Boolean value. In general, things will evaluate to `False` if they are:
- empty containers, zero, or None
	- `"", '', (), {}, [], 0, 0.0, None`
- anything outside of these evaluates to True

We can type cast something into a Boolean value using `bool(val)`
The integer of a Boolean is either 1 or 0, so `int(bool('yes'))` is 1

## Strings
A string is a sequence of characters. Anything between a *matching* pair of quotes is considered a string. Matching matters because multiple matching quotes will change how the string is read. Escape matching quotes to stay consistent.
```py
# Invalid
'Hello"
'It's Sarah's birthday'

# Valid
'Hello'
'It\'s Sarah\'s birthday'
"It's my birthday"
```

### Formatting
Strings can have variables inserted in them to avoid clunky concatenation.
```py
# Using .format
'My name is {0} and I am {1} years old.'.format(name, age)
# The numbers refer to the index of the parameters and can be moved around.

# Using f-strings
'My name is {name} and I am {age} years old'
```

### Indexing
Strings are indexed with brackets. Python allows for negative indexing, which is the distance from the string length
```py
'Hello'[0] # H
'Hello'[1] # e
'Hello'[-1] # l
```
Python does not handle values out of range well like JavaScript. Rather than evaluating to undefined or None, an out of bounds index will raise an exception.
```py
'Hello'[17] # IndexError: string index out of range 
```

### Slicing
Python allows for a string to be sliced by passing in multiple index values, separated by a colon. The possible values are inclusive start, exclusive end, step. Leaving a start or end out implies from the beginning or to the end. The default step is 1.
```py
'Hello'[1:3] # el
'Hello'[:3] # Hel
'Hello'[3:] # lo
'Hello'[::2] # Hlo

# A negative step can traverse backwards
'Hello'[::-1] # olleH
```

Python string slices can handle out of bounds ranges without throwing an exception
```py
'Hello'[1:300] # ello
'Hello'[-20: -10] # Empty string
```

### String functions
```py
# Convert into a string
str(val)

# Get the length of a string
len(string) 

# Count the instances of a substring
# Returns 0 if not found
string.count(s)

# Find the first index of a substring 
# Raises exception if not found
string.index(s)

# Join a list of strings together using one base string
'-'.join(['a', 'b', 'c']) # a-b-c
```

View more string functions [here](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods)

### String concatenation
String can be added and multiplied to create new strings.
```py
'Hello' + 'Paul # HelloPaul
'hi' * 3 # hihihi
```

Concatenation does not type cast. Trying to operate on strings and other data types will not work
```py
'Hello' + 3 # TypeError
```

## Number Data Types

### Integer
An integer is a positive or negative whole (non-decimal) number.
```py
0, -2, 6

# Convert to an integer
int('7') # 7
```

### Float
A floating point number is a number with any decimal value. It is called a *floating point* number because the location of the decimal can *float* or change locations. A float's position and precision (numbers after the decimal) depend on the environment.
```py
0.0, 1.23, 827826.925692

# Convert to a float 
float(8/3) # 2.666667

format a decimal place
'{:.2f}'.format(float(8/3))
round(float(8/3), 2)
```

Floats are prone to rounding errors when the decimal component becomes too large. Be wary of the precision of a float in calculations.
Behind the scenes, a float is stored in a signed 32 or 64 bit piece of memory. This means that the front of the float is the integer value and the back is the decimal value. They share the same space, and therefore do not have the ability to overwrite one another. This is how rounding errors occur.

### Special values
We can gain access to the infinity values by setting a variable to the value of 'inf' passed to the float constructor. We can also use the math package
```py
inf = float('inf')
ninf = float('-inf')

import math
math.inf
-math.inf
```