## How to set up a Flask project
### Install
A flask project is run in a python environment. Start by installing in the root of your project directory using pipenv.
`pipenv install Flask`
`pipenv install Flask~=2.2.2` for a specific version
`pipenv run flask --version` to verify installation


### Initialize
A flask project is initialized in a python file. The file can be named anything, but standard convention is naming it `__init__.py`, similar to `index.html`. Inside the file, we want to import Flask from the installed package, create a new Flask instance, and pass it a name.
The new instance can be named anything, but standard convention is to name it using the `__name__` dunder, which refers to the file name.
*the init file can go inside an app directory, and we can tell flask to look inside app for the init file, instead of specifying __init__.py*

```py
# first flask is package, seconf Flask is package contents
from flask import Flask

# instanciate flask, name it
app = Flask(__name__)
```

Now that we have an flask instance in our app, we can tell flask what to run and render at given paths.

```py
# the rendering function is wrapped in a flask decorator that accepts a path an an argument
@app.route('/')
def init():
	print('user acessed home directory')
	# Return a string, usually of html or a rendered html file
	return '<h1>Welcome to the home page</h1>'
```

### Configuration
#### flaskenv
To get flask configured, we first need to set up some environment variables. While there are a few ways to do this, such as on the command line `export FLASK_VAR=val` the best is to declare them in a separate `.flaskenv` file.
To be able to read from a `.flaskenv`, first install dotenv for python.
`pipenv instal python-dotenv`
Now, inside the file, we can set up the environment variables specific to flask.
```
# The file or directory flask needs to run
# since we named the file __init__.py, 
# we can simply pass the path from the project root directory
FLASK_APP=app
FLASK_DEBUG=on
```
*terminal command `unset FLASK_VAR` can remove or undo environment variables*

#### env
In addition to the `.flaskenv`, we can also set up a `.env`. *The stuff in a .flaskenv is for getting the flask app running. The stuff inside an .env is specific to the development of the app, and should be hidden/unique*
The `.env` is where we would put the secret key
```
SECRET_KEY=unique-hashed-value
```

#### config.py
With an env set up, we can have the flask instance (app) configure itself based off a class that reads the env and sets variables to itself. If it can't read something off the .env, it can be set to a default value.
```py
# os reads the environment variables
import os

# inheriting from object is not necessary, 
# but can provide useful functionality later on
class Config(object):
	GREETING = 'Konnichiwa'
	SECRET_KEY = os.environ.get['SECRET_KEY'] or 'default-value'
```

Back in the `__init__.py`, we can import the Config class and have the app configure itself using it.

```py
# Located in the app directory
from app.config import Config

app.config.from_object(Config)

#We can now access anything inside the app.config object
app.config['key']
```
### Running Flask
Finally, to run the project and connect to the internet, run the terminal command `pipenv run flask run` which will default to port **5000**. A port can be specified using the `-p XXXX` flag at the end of the command.

Changes to the init file will automatically restart the server, so saving and restarting isnt necessary when developing the init and routes. It may be necessary when making modifications to other source files.

## Putting it all together
### File Structure
```
root
	.venv/
	app/
		.__init__.py
		config.py
	.flaskenv
	.env
	Pipfile
	Pipfile.lock
	readme.md
	
```

### Terminal Commands
```terminal
pipenv install Flask
pipenv run flask run
```
### Key Files:
#### `__init__.py`
```py
from flask import Flask
from app.config import Config

app = Flask(__name__)
app.config.from_object(Config)

@app.route('/')
def init():
	print(app.config['GREETING'])
	return '<h1>Home Page</h1>'
```

#### `config.py`
```py
import os

class Config():
	SECRET_KEY = os.environ.get('SECRET_KEY') or 'default-key'
	GREETING = 'Konnichiwa'
```

#### `.flaskenv`
```
FLASP_APP=app
FLASK_ENV=development
FLASK_DEBUG=on
```

#### `.env`
```
SECRET_KEY=9932kjhIUbib278723ekKIBUIU829834
```