## Handling Routes
Routes in flask are handled by decorators and functions. The decorator is called upon the app, takes in a path as a string, and wraps itself around a following function. The contents of the function will determine what we do, and what is returned. The return value will usually be html, in the form of a string.
`@app.route('/path')`


By chaining decorators, several routes can share the same actions. Useful for when we have multiple pages that do the same thing or lead to the same place.
```py
@app.route('/')
@app.route('/home')
def home():
	do_stuff()
	return 'html'
```
*It's good practice to make the name of the function match the functionality or path of decorator*


## Route Parameters
Within a path, we can also define a route parameter. The route parameter will allow different data to be displayed in a uniform manner on the style of same page.
To use a parameter, add an id to the end of the path with angled brackets.
`@app.route('/hello/<name>'`
And then pass that same parameter name into the function parameter list for use
```py
@app.route('/hello/<name>')
def hello_name(name):
	return f"<h1>Hello {name}<h1>"
```

For added security and error handling, flask allows us to type cast the parameter within the path by adding the expected class inside the angled brackets. Type casting the parameter tells flask to only accept requests with parameters that match the type.


A request to `@app.route('/users/<int: id>')` as `/path/23` will work fine. But a request to `/path/Bob`
CONTINUE HERE 

## Rendering
In order to return just an html tag with a little text, we can return that string value.
`return '<h1>Content</h1>'`
If we wanted to return an entire webpage, we could write out the entire page as a very large string. This can be incredibly complicated. Instead, we can use the `Jinja` package.

## What is Jinja?
Jinja is a dependency for Flask that helps to render html templates in our web application. Templates make serving html easier by writing out predefined html files that we can pass values into and modify. Without templates, we would have to serve html to Flask by writing it all out manually in a large string.