## Handling Routes
Routes in flask are handled by decorators and functions. The decorator is called upon the app, takes in a path as a string, and wraps itself around a following function. The contents of the function will determine what we do, and what is returned. The return value will usually be html, in the form of a string.
`@app.route('/path')`
App routes can also have their CRUD method specified, but the default is GET. View [[8. Forms#Route Methods|here]] for more information regarding route methods.

By chaining decorators, several routes can share the same actions. Useful for when we have multiple pages that do the same thing or lead to the same place.
```py
@app.route('/')
@app.route('/home')
def home():
	do_stuff()
	return 'html'
```
*It's good practice to make the name of the function match the functionality or path of decorator*

There are additional decorators that add additional functionality:
`@app.before_request` runs code before the request goes through
	- This is useful for establishing database connections or logging in users
	
`@app.before_first_request` runs code before the very first request is made
	- This is good for initializing the application

`@app.after_request` runs code after the request has completed and a response is made.
	- This is useful for closing database connections.
	- The function following this ***must*** take in a response as a parameter, and ***must*** return a response as well.
## Route Parameters
Within a path, we can also define a route parameter. The route parameter will allow different data to be displayed in a uniform manner on the style of same page.
To use a parameter, add an id to the end of the path with angled brackets.
`@app.route('/hello/<name>'`
And then pass that same parameter name into the function parameter list for use
```py
@app.route('/hello/<name>')
def hello_name(name):
	return f"<h1>Hello {name}<h1>"
```

For added security and error handling, flask allows us to type cast the parameter within the path by adding the expected class inside the angled brackets. Type casting the parameter tells flask to only accept requests with parameters that match the type. *There can be no space between the cast and the parameter*

A request to `@app.route('/users/<int:id>')` as `/path/23` will work fine. But a request to `/path/Bob` would throw a 404 error (not found) since Bob cannot be parsed to an int, and that page wouldn't exist.

## Static Routes
Flask has a predefined route for serving static files. It does not require any decorators or functions.
What it does require is a directory named 'static' at the same level the application is defined ( a neighbor to our init). This is where we will place additional subdirectories and static files.
Any path that begins at '/static' will search the project's static directory for the matching file *with* extension.
*to get a static css file into a base html template, we can link to it with a specific href*
	The `url_for` takes in parameters in the form of folder name, and filename
`<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ url_for('static', filename='index.css')}}">`

## Redirect
We can send the user to another location by using a Redirect method. This works well in conjunction with something like a form submission, where we can send the user to a new page on successful submission.
```py
from flask import Flask, redirect

...
...

@app.route('/form', methods=['GET', POST]
def form_page():
  form = Sample form()
  if form.validate_on_submit():
    return redirect('/')
```

### File Structure
*url/static/styles/css*
```py
root
  /app
    __init__.py
    /static
      /styles
        main.css
```
## Putting it all together
```py
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/')
@app.route('/home')
def home():
	return '<h1>Welcome</h1>'

@app.route(/hello)
@app.route('/hello/<name>')
def hello(name=None):
	if name:
		return f'<h1>Hello, {name}</h1>'
	else:
		return '<h1>Hello, user</h1>'
```