When using API routing conventions, many routes are bound to have a similar prefix or beginning for many different actions.
Rather than having a single file with too many routes, they can be grouped together and split into blueprints.

## Set up
To create a blueprint, we must first import it from flask, and then create a variable to represent it. The variables it takes in will represent the *name* of the blueprint, the file it is defined in, and what each route defined in this file will begin with. 
This will usually occur in a file designated for one specific prefix.
```py
from flask import Blueprint

# name of blueprint
# file's location/name
# route prefix
bp = Blueprint('user', __name__, url_prefix='/user')
```

Now that we have this blueprint set up, the main flask application needs to know to use it.
Within the `init` file, we will call the `blueprint_register` method on the app, and tell it what blueprint to look for.
`app.register_blueprint(routes.user.bp)`
Optionally, we can also import the router and pass that in instead
`from app.routes.user import bp`
`app.register_blueprint(bp)`
If using this method, we would want to use more explicit names in the blueprint to avoid namespace collisions.

## Using Blueprint
A blueprint works identically to the app. A decorator is given a route method with a path and CRUD methods passed in. A function then follows for the instructions and rendering at this route.
```py
from flask import Blueprint

bp = Blueprint('tweet', __name__, url_prefix='/tweet')

# the same as '/tweet/new'
@bp.route('/new')
def new_tweet(new):
	return render_template('new_tweet_form.html')
```

## File Structure
*Remember* these blueprint files will likely be held within a routes directory within the app directory
```
Root
	/app
		/forms
		/routes 
			tweet.py
			users.py
		/templates
		__init__.py
		config.py
```
