## What is Jinja?
Jinja is a package for Flask that helps to render html templates in our web application. Templates make serving html easier by writing out predefined html files that we can pass values into and modify. Without templates, we would have to serve html to Flask by writing it all out manually in a large string.

## Setting up
To get Jinja into flask, it must first be installed with pipenv
`pipenv install Jinja2`
*Jinja2 is the latest and assumed default version*

After installation, we need ro give Jinja a directory to load html templates from. On the same level as our flask app (`app.__init__.py`) creates a `templates` directory.

Now we can add any number of html files for later use and repurposing.
### File Structure
```py
root
  /app
    __init__.py
    /templates
      index.html
      about.html
      contact.html
```

## Rendering
To access and serve these html files, we can import and make use of `render_template, which can be imported along with other things from flask
`from flask import Flask, render_template `

By invoking it and passing in the full filename as a string argument, flask will search for the matching file and serve it as html.
`return render_template('contact.html)`

## Passing variables
Another advantage of Jinja is the ability to parse variables into our templates.
The `render_template` function can take additional arguements assigned values after the file name. 
`render_template('filename.html', var1=val, var2=val2)`

The name of the variable is how it is accessed when passed into the template. They can be accessed by using a special Jinja syntax within the html. Leave some whitespace between the brackets for readability.

```html
<h1> Text text {{ var1 }}</h1>
<p>{{ var2 }} text</p>
```

## Control flow
In addition to being able to display variables, Jinja syntax within a template allows us to perform conditionals and looping Rather than double curly braces, these will use curly braces with modulo. Leave whitespace for readability.
`{% logic... %}`
All JInja syntax and logic will end in a `end` block to denote the end of whitespace indentation.

### Conditionals
Using if statements, we can decide what elements to render. *A ternary shortcut for this does not yet exist*. Ifs, elifs, and elses can all be used.
```py
{% if coins_entered == 0 %}
	<h1>Enter coins to continue</h1>
{% elif coins_entered == 1 %}
	<h1>1 credit remaining</h1>
{% else %}
	<h1>Play Game</h1>
{% endif %}
```

### Looping
Using loops, we can repeat a section of code to create multiple of the same element.
```py
{% for monster in monsters %}
	<div>
		<h1>{{ monster.name }}</h1>
		<p>{{ monster.decsription }}</p>
	</div>
{% endfor %}
```

## Reusing templates
Jinja is able to render templates within a template. This means that we can return a template, and have it inserted as a section into another one. There are two main ways to do this.

### Insert
Using the insert keyword, we can simply place a single line of code inside a template for where we want a specific template to go. This template is explicitly named.
```py
    <h1>{{ sitename }}</h1>
    <h2>{{ page }}</h2>
    {% include 'nav.html' %}
    <p>Coming soon to a browser near you...</p>
    {% include 'copyright.html' %}
```
## Block
Using a template block is useful for dynamic use of templates. A base template can have a named section dedicated for rendering another file.
To have the file dynamically insert itself, we the template being put in the block needs to inherit from the base file, and share the same block name.
*A template block also has an endblock, and uses curly braces and modulo*
#### Base file
```py
<h1>Tweeter</h1>
<nav>
	<a href="/">Home</a>
	<a href="/feed">Feed</a>
	<a href="/new">New Tweet</a>
</nav>
{% block main %}
{% endblock %}
```

#### Template file
The extends keywords identifies which file to go into.
```py
{% extends 'base.html' %}

{% block main %}
<h3>Welcome to Tweeter!  Click on the feed to see more tweets!</h3>
<div class="tweet">
    <p>{{ tweet.author }} tweeted on {{ tweet.date }} ...</p>
    <p>"{{ tweet.tweet }}"</p>
    <p>Likes: {{ tweet.likes / 1000 }}k</p>
</div>
{% endblock %}
```
*Inserted and blocked templates will still have access to the parent's passed variables*