## What makes a computer?
The most essential hardware that make up a computer are:
- A processor (CPU)
- The Memory (RAM)
- Storage (Hard Drives and SolidState Drives)
- The Network Card (NIC)

The *kernel* is the part of the operating system that manages the hardware.

## What is a virtual machine?
A virtual machine is an emulation of a complete operating system. A virtual machine divides the resources of the computer to allow for another operating system to run. The two types of virtual machines are:
- Bare metal Hypervisors: which are computers without a primary host OS. These are meant to run many Guest OS at once.
- Hosted Hypervisor: which is a program installed on top of the Host OS. The host provides the resources required to run the guest OS. 
Virtual machines - especially host hypervisors - tend to be resource intensive, and degrade overall performance. The virtual machine takes all resources used when running, and is like having to boot up two entirely separate computers.

## What is a container?
A container is similar to a virtual machine, but much less resource intensive. Where as a VM requires all hardware and software to be emulated, a container requires only what is needed to run and store its own directories, similar to a mobile application. 

While they are much more lightweight, they can be slightly less secure, since they are run and processed by the host kernel, where as a VM is run by it's virtual kernel, through resources allocated by the host kernel.

Virtual machines and containers can be run in combination with one another.

Docker is the program we will use to run containers. A container can be run for each process required in a project. Docker will allow us to run both Linux and Windows programs. Linux containers are typically the standard used in most companies.


